
CHERRY CHEESECAKE
INGREDIENTS
Serves: 6-8

METRICCUPS
125 grams crumbled digestive biscuits
75 grams soft butter
300 grams cream cheese
60 grams icing sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
½ teaspoon fresh lemon juice
250 millilitres double cream
1 x 284 grams jar black cherry spread (e.g., St Dalfour Rhapsodie de Fruit)
METHOD
Blitz the biscuits in a food processor until beginning to turn to crumbs, then add the butter and whiz again to make the mixture clump.
Press this mixture into a 20cm / 8 inch springform tin; press a little up the sides to form a slight ridge.
Beat together the cream cheese, icing sugar, vanilla extract and lemon juice in a bowl until smooth.
Lightly whip the double cream, and then fold it into the cream cheese mixture.
Spoon the cheesecake filling on top of the biscuit base and smooth with a spatula. Put it in the fridge for 3 hours or overnight.
When you are ready to serve the cheesecake, unmould it and spread the black cherry over the top.

CARIBBEAN CREAMS
INGREDIENTS
Serves: 4

METRICCUPS
175 grams coconut-flavoured yogurt
175 millilitres double cream
1 tablespoon coconut rum such as malibu (optional)
1 medium banana
2 tablespoons dark brown muscovado sugar
METHOD
Stir together the yogurt and cream with the Malibu, if you're using it, and whisk until slightly thickened.
Slice the banana and then divide the slices between four 125ml / ½ cup ramekins to form a layer at the bottom of each one.
Spoon in the thickened yogurt and cream mixture, filling the ramekins equally.
Sprinkle about 1 ½ teaspoons of sugar over each ramekin, then wrap them in clingfilm, and place in the fridge overnight or for the day.

CHEESECAKE ICE CREAM
INGREDIENTS
Serves: 6-8

METRICCUPS
175 millilitres full fat milk
200 grams caster sugar
125 grams cream cheese
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
1 large egg
juice of ½ lemon
350 millilitres double cream
50 grams crumbled digestive biscuits or a packet of digestive biscuits for sandwiching (optional)


METHOD
Heat the milk in a pan, and while it's getting warm, beat together the sugar, Philadelphia, vanilla and egg in a bowl. Still whisking, pour the hot milk into the cream cheese mixture and pour this back into the cleaned-out pan and cook till a velvety custard. I don't bother with a double boiler, and actually don't even keep the heat very low, but you will need to stir it constantly, and if you think there's any trouble ahead, plunge the pan into a sink half filled with cold water and whisk like mad. It shouldn't take more than 10 minutes, this way, for the custard to cook. And when it has thickened, take it off the heat, pour into a bowl and let it cool, at which time add the lemon juice and then the double cream, lightly whipped.
Freeze in an ice cream maker or place into a covered container, stick it in the freezer and whip it out every hour for 3 hours as it freezes and give it a good beating, folding in the crushed digestives — if using — before the ice cream is set solid.


CREME BRULEE
INGREDIENTS
Serves: 6-8

METRICCUPS
600 millilitres double cream
1 vanilla pod
8 large egg yolks
3 tablespoons caster sugar
approx. 6 tablespoons demerara sugar

METHOD
Put a pie dish of about 20cm / 8 inches diameter in the freezer for at least 20 minutes. Half-fill the sink with cold water. This is just a precaution in case the custard looks as if it's about to split, in which case you should plunge the pan into the water and whisk the custard. I'm not saying it will — with so many egg yolks in the rich cream, it thickens quickly and easily enough — but I always feel better if I've done this.
Put the cream and vanilla pod into a saucepan and bring to boiling point, but do not let boil. Beat the eggs and caster sugar together in a bowl, and, still beating, pour the flavoured cream over it, pod and all. Rinse and dry the pan and pour the custard mix back in. Cook over medium heat (or low, if you're scared) until the custard thickens: about 10 minutes should do it. You do want this to be a good, voluptuous creme, so don't err on the side of runny caution. Remember, you've got your sinkful of cold water to plunge the pan into should it really look as if it's about to split.
When the cream's thick enough, take out the vanilla pod, retrieve the pie dish and pour this creme into the severely chilled container. Leave to cool, then put in the fridge till truly cold. Sprinkle with demerara sugar, spoonful by spoonful, and burn with a blowtorch till you have a blistered tortoiseshell covering on top.
Put back in the fridge if you want, but remember to take it out a good 20 minutes before serving. At which stage, put the bowl on the table and, with a large spoon and unchecked greed, crack through the sugary carapace and delve into the satin-velvet, vanilla-speckled cream beneath. No more talking: just eat.

GLITZY CHOCOLATE PUDDINGS
INGREDIENTS
Makes: 8 puddings

METRICCUPS
FOR THE CHOCOLATE PUDDINGS
100 grams dark chocolate (minimum 70% cocoa solids)
100 grams soft butter
200 grams caster sugar
4 large eggs
50 grams plain flour
¼ teaspoon bicarbonate of soda
1 pinch of salt
FOR THE GLAZE
150 grams dark chocolate (minimum 70% cocoa solids)
45 grams butter
80 grams crunchie bar (2 bars)

METHOD
Preheat the oven to 180°C/160°C Fan/gas mark 4/350ºF.
Break up the chocolate and melt it with the butter in a bowl in the microwave or in a double boiler. Once it's melted, sit the bowl on a cold surface so that the chocolate cools.
Preferably in a freestanding mixer, beat the eggs and sugar until thick and pale and moussy, then gently fold in the flour, bicarbonate of soda and a pinch of salt.
Fold in the slightly cooled chocolate and butter mixture and then divide between eight ramekins, put in the oven to bake for 25 minutes.
Meanwhile, get on with the glaze by melting the chocolate and butter in a microwave (or double boiler), then whisk to form a smooth glossy mixture, and spoon this over the cooked puddings.
Decorate with Crunchie bar rubble: I just put the bars in a freezer bag, set to with a rolling pin and strew over the top.

CHOCOLATE PEANUT BUTTER FUDGE SUNDAE
INGREDIENTS
Serves: 4 very lucky people

METRICCUPS
175 millilitres double cream
100 grams milk chocolate (chopped)
100 grams smooth peanut butter (Skippy for preference)
3 tablespoons golden syrup
4 scoops caramel ice cream or toffee ice cream
4 scoops chocolate ice cream
4 scoops vanilla ice cream
4 tablespoons salted peanuts (roughly chopped or left whole to taste)

METHOD
Put all the cream, chopped chocolate, peanut butter and golden syrup into a saucepan and place on the heat to melt, stirring occasionally. In about 2 minutes you should have your sauce ready.
Get out four sundae glasses and put a scoop of toffee or caramel ice cream in each, followed by one of chocolate and then another of vanilla.
Pour some chocolate peanut butter fudge sauce over each sundae and sprinkle with the salted peanuts. Hand them round and wait for people to weep with gratitude.


ANGLO-ITALIAN TRIFLE
INGREDIENTS
Serves: 12-14

METRICCUPS
8 trifle sponges
200 grams blackcurrant jam
200 grams amaretti biscuits
250 millilitres limoncello or other lemon liqueur
juice of ½ lemon
750 grams blackberries
2 large eggs (separated)
100 grams caster sugar
750 grams mascarpone cheese
50 grams flaked almonds
METHOD
Split the trifle sponges and make little sandwiches of them using 150g / two-thirds cup of the jam, then wodge them into the base of your glass bowl. Reduce the amaretti biscuits to rubble in the processor and, reserving some crumbs for sprinkling over the top at the end, scatter most of them evenly over the sponges and then pour over them 150ml / two-thirds cup of the limoncello.
Put the remaining 50g / one-third cup of jam into a wide saucepan with the lemon juice and melt over a low heat, then tumble in the blackberries and turn in the heat for a minute or so just until the juices start running. Tip these over the biscuit-sprinkled, liqueur-soused sponge sandwiches to cover and leave this while you get on with the next bit.
Whisk the egg yolks with the caster sugar until you have a thick smooth yellow paste. I use my Kitchen Aid for this, but any old hand-held electric mixer or whisk would be fine. Still whisking, drip in another 50ml / 3 tablespoons limoncello and continue whisking away until you have a light moussey mixture. Whisk in the mascarpone until everything is smoothly combined, and when this is done add the remaining 50ml / 3 tablespoons of limoncello.
Finally, in another bowl, whisk the egg whites until firm, but not dry, and fold these into the lemony, eggy mascarpone mixture. Now spread this gently over the blackberries in the glass bowl.
Cover the thus-far assembled trifle with clingfilm and leave in the fridge for the flavours and textures to steep and meld for at least 4 hours and up to 24. Take the trifle out of the fridge for about 40 minutes to an hour before it's needed (depending on how cold your fridge runs) to get to coolish room temperature. Not long before you want to eat, toast the flaked almonds by tossing them in a dry, oil-less pan over medium heat until they are turning gold and flashed bronze in parts, then tip them on to a plate. When they're cool, mix them with the reserved amaretti crumbs. Remove the clingfilm from the bowl and scatter the nuts and crumbs over the pale, set surface. Dig in and serve, making sure to heap the full triple-banded layer on each plate: the lemony, almondy, cream-swathed berrieness makes this the perfect ending to a large, lazy summer lunch.